# GoodreadsEDA
### By: Trevor Grant

This project was created the satisfy the requirements for the EDA project
at K2 Data Science bootcamp.

## Goal:

This project is meant to take a list of authors and store all of the public
facing review information on Goodreads.com about each of that author's books into
a sqlite3 database so that exploratory data analysis may be performed on the
scraped data.

Once the data has been scraped it is pulled into a pandas DataFrame, where it
is then cleaned and organized by time, and visualized.

**The Writeup for this project is located at:**

`/docs/WRITEUP.md`

## Requirements:

Because of some string formatting stuff these scripts will need at least Python version 3.6
to function properly (get with the times).

Note that this has been tested only on MacOSX Sierra (don't get with the times when it come
to High Sierra), but it should work in most MacOS and Linux environments.

For further requirements see `requirements.txt`.

## EDA Questions.

The project as it currently stands is interested in exploring two questions:

1. Does a movie / television show made about a work of fiction effect the average
rating of the *book*?

2. If an effect *exists* does it carry over to the author's other works?


## Quickstart.

If you are running these scripts from scratch, be prepared to wait a while
(about eight hours with the current author list). Might I recommend watching
the entirely of *'Rotten'* on Netflix, and then making dinner, eating it,
and reading a book while this program runs? (Or do what I did and sleep)

If you wish to run the scripts individually they should be run in this order:

1. `./mk_bklst.py` (outputs a .csv file with all the urls the need to be scraped.)
2. `./scp_bks.py` (goes through and grabs all the public facing reviews of books for all authors)
3.  `./imdb_release.py` (gets the release date for the movies / tv shows made from an author's primary book)
4. `./bk_plt.py` (plots a line graph showing the average review score throughout a book's lifespan, also plots a line indicating the release date of a film / tv show.)
5. `./all_bks.py`

As `scp_bks.py` depends on a .csv file in created as output for `mk_bklst.py`
in order to run. and `bk_plt.py` depends on the sqlite3 db generated by `scp_bks.py`
in order to create the visualization.

However, this repo includes the most recent outputs of both `mk_bklst.py`
and `scp_bks.py`, so to jump straight to the visualization you may simply run
`bk_plt.py` to get some output.

### Inputting your own book for visualization.

Currently `bk_plt.py` will create a visualization for each book in the `movie_titl` list located
in the file `lists.py`. If you would like to view a graph for a different book you will need to
edit `lists.py` to reflect books in the current database.

## Current Author List:

The data the current iteration of the project is looking into is lesser known
author's who have had at least one of their books optioned for either film or
television.

The current author list for the project is below:

* Liane Moriarty – Big Little Lies (series)
* Jojo Moyes – Me Before You
* Dave Eggers – The Circle
* André Aciman – Call Me By Your Name
* Nicola Yoon – Everything Everything
* Colm Tóibín – Brooklyn
* Fredrik Backman – A Man Called Ove
* Ransom Riggs - Miss Peregrine’s Home for Peculiar Children
* Paula Hawkins – The Girl on the Train
* M.L. Stedman – The Light Between Oceans
* Rick Yancey – The 5th Wave
* Lisa Genova – Still Alice
* Kody Keplinger – The D.U.F.F.
* Uzodinma Iweala – Beasts of No Nation
* Kevin Wilson – The Family Fang
* Jonathan Tropper – This Is Where I Leave You
* Jesse Andrews – Me and Earl and the Dying Girl
* Margaret Atwood – The Handmaid’s Tale
* Herman Koch – The Dinner
* Ben Fountain - Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk
* Orson Scott Card – Ender’s Game
* Gayle Forman – If I Stay

### Inputing your own authors.

If you would like to use the program to investigate authors other than the ones
provided you will need to:

1. Navigate to the author in question's book list page on
www.goodreads.com. The links come in a format such as the one listed below:

https://www.goodreads.com/author/list/author_id.author_name

  The easiest way to find this page is to:
  - Search for the author on www.goodreads.com,
  - Navigate to the author's page, and click on the link on the page that says
  "`author_name`'s books."
  - Copy the page url.

2. Inside of this project navigate to `/GoodreadsEDA/lists.py`.

3. In the top of the file there is a list of urls called `auth_urls`. Replace
the current values in this list with the author's you are interested in getting
review information for.
